Docs (#11)
Observatory-Sciences/aravis-detector: docs/user/tutorials/run.md

# Run

## Connect Aravis-detector plugin to Odin-data

> Odin-data can be started from the terminal similar to any other app. Since the aravis plugin skips the frame receiver, only the frame processor is needed. To start it simply run:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Odin-data can be started from the terminal similar to any other app. However, it is useful to first setup the terminal environment to include the Odin and Aravis-detector binaries on the path as well as loading the python virtual environment. Assuming the `MAIN_DIR` environment variable from the build is still defined, the environment can be configured as:

```shell
export PATH=$MAIN_DIR/prefix/bin:$PATH
source $MAIN_DIR/venv/bin/activate
```

The above commands can optionally also be added to the users ```~/.bashrc``` file to automatically load the environment in every terminal session.

Since the aravis-detector Odin plugin does not use the frame receiver, only the frame processor is needed.:
````

```shell

> $cwd/prefix/bin/frameProcessor --config $cwd/aravis-detector/docs/start_fp_example.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
frameProcessor --config $MAIN_DIR/aravis-detector/docs/start_fp_example.json
```

With the above environment loaded you don't need to specify the full path to `frameProcessor`...

```

The ```--config``` flag specifies a JSON configuration file that sets up the frame processor. More information on the possible configurations can be found in the [FrameProcessor documentation.](https://odin-detector.github.io/odin-data/master/user/explanations/frame-processor.html)

The default settings provided by the ```start_aravis.json``` file configure the plugin to list all available devices and then connect to the camera with the specified address. Make sure to connect any cameras before starting Odin, to do so you can follow the [guide given in explanations](../reference/camera). Additionally, the aravis camera simulator can be used to test the plugin by running:

```shell

> $cwd/prefix/bin/arv-fake-gv-camera-0.8 -s GV02 -d all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
arv-fake-gv-camera-0.8 -s GV02 -d all
```

With the above environment loaded you don't need to specify the full path to `arv-fake-gv-camera-0.8`

15:50:56,255 FP.LiveViewPlugin INFO - Setting Live View Socket Address to tcp://0.0.0.0:5020
15:50:56,255 FP.LiveViewPlugin ERROR - Error binding socket to address tcp://0.0.0.0:5020 Error Number: 98
15:50:57,258 FP.AravisDetectorPlugin WARN - No cameras were detected. Please confirm camera is connected
15:50:57,258 FP.FileWriterPlugin INFO - {"params":{"dataset":{"data":{"datatype":"uint8","dims":[3672,5496],"compression":"none"}},"acquisition_id":"test","timeout_timer_period":3000},"msg_type":"cmd","msg_val":"configure","id":0,"timestamp":"2024-04-18T15:50:57.258893"}
15:50:57,258 FP.FileWriterPlugin INFO - Checking for string name of dataset
15:50:57,258 FP.FileWriterPlugin INFO - Dataset name data found, creating...
15:50:57,259 FP.FileWriterPlugin INFO - Enabling compression: 1
15:50:57,259 FP.FileWriterPlugin INFO - Setting next Acquisition ID to test
15:50:57,259 FP.FileWriterPlugin INFO - Setting close file timeout to 3000
15:50:58,260 FP.AravisDetectorPlugin ERROR - No compatible cameras found, recheck connection
15:50:58,260 FP.FrameProcessorController INFO - Running frame processor
```

## Start the control server

> To start the Odin control server run the following in the same Python environment you installed it in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the Odin control server run the following `odin_control` command, assuming that the python virtualenv is loaded as the environment described above:
```
